.TH MSCAN 1 "January 2026" "mscan 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mscan \- martech intelligence scanner for detecting marketing technology on websites
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mscan
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mscan
is a command-line tool that scans websites to identify their marketing and advertising
technology stack. It uses a headless browser to capture network requests and matches
them against a fingerprint database of known martech vendors.
.PP
The scanner provides actionable intelligence including:
.IP \(bu 2
Detection of known martech vendors by category
.IP \(bu 2
Competitive analysis for Direct Mail and CTV vendors
.IP \(bu 2
Discovery of unknown third-party domains
.IP \(bu 2
Interactive vendor database management
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B scan \fIURL\fR
Scan a website for martech vendors. URL can be a domain (example.com) or full URL
(https://example.com). After scanning, displays findings grouped by category with
actionable takeaways.
.TP
.B list-vendors
List all vendors in the fingerprint database with their detection rules, grouped
by category.
.TP
.B add-vendor \fINAME\fR \-s \fISAMPLE_URL\fR
Add a new vendor to the database by scanning a sample website known to use that
vendor. Interactively guides through domain selection and categorization.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "scan options"
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " " \fISECONDS\fR
Seconds to wait for network activity per page. Default: 10. Lower values scan
faster but may miss lazy-loaded trackers.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pages " " \fINUM\fR
Maximum internal pages to scan beyond homepage. Default: 1. The scanner
prioritizes product pages when selecting which pages to scan.
.TP
.B \-\-headless
Run browser in headless mode. May be blocked by bot detection on some sites.
Default is headed mode for better compatibility.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-show\-report
Display the full text report in terminal after scan completes.
.SS "list-vendors options"
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-category " " \fICATEGORY\fR
Filter vendors by category name (partial match supported).
.SS "add-vendor options"
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-sample\-url " " \fIURL\fR
(Required) URL of a website known to use the vendor being added.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-category " " \fICATEGORY\fR
Vendor category. If not provided, will prompt interactively.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " " \fISECONDS\fR
Seconds to wait for network activity when scanning sample site. Default: 10.
.SH CATEGORIES
Vendors are organized into the following categories:
.TP
.B Direct Mail and Offline Attribution
PebblePost, Postie, LS Direct, Postpilot
.TP
.B CTV and Streaming Attribution
MNTN/Steelhouse, Tatari, Innovid, Teads
.TP
.B Social Media Advertising
Meta Pixel, TikTok Pixel, Pinterest Tag, Snapchat Pixel, X/Twitter Pixel, LinkedIn
.TP
.B Search and Display Advertising
Google Ads, Microsoft/Bing Ads, Criteo, The Trade Desk
.TP
.B Affiliate and Performance Marketing
CJ Affiliate, Impact, Rakuten Advertising
.TP
.B Analytics and Experimentation
Google Analytics, Amplitude, Heap, Hotjar, FullStory, Quantum Metric
.TP
.B Identity and Data Infrastructure
LiveRamp, LiveIntent
.TP
.B Consent Management
OneTrust, Cookiebot, TrustArc
.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
After a scan completes, mscan presents interactive options:
.TP
.B v
Open the full report in nvim
.TP
.B u
View unknown third-party domains detected during scan. From here, you can
select domains to add as new vendors using a batch workflow.
.TP
.B Enter
Exit without additional action
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Scan a website with default settings:
.B mscan scan nike.com
.TP
Quick scan with shorter timeout:
.B mscan scan target.com \-t 5 \-p 0
.TP
Scan multiple pages:
.B mscan scan bestbuy.com \-p 3
.TP
List all vendors in the database:
.B mscan list-vendors
.TP
List only analytics vendors:
.B mscan list-vendors \-c analytics
.TP
Add a new vendor:
.B mscan add-vendor "Acme Analytics" \-s example.com
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/mscan/reports/
Directory where scan reports are saved (domain-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS.txt)
.TP
.I <package>/data/vendors.json
Vendor fingerprint database bundled with the package
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (network failure, invalid URL, etc.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DISPLAY
Required for headed browser mode (default). Not needed if using \-\-headless.
.SH NOTES
The scanner runs a real browser (Chromium via Playwright) to capture network
requests. This allows detection of JavaScript-loaded trackers that wouldn't
appear in static HTML analysis.
.PP
Retail and e-commerce sites are common targets. The scanner prioritizes
scanning product pages since these often have additional tracking for
conversion attribution.
.PP
Direct Mail and CTV categories are highlighted as "competitive" in the
takeaways section, useful for sales prospecting.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/jro/mscan/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Written with assistance from Claude Code.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR playwright (1)
